README.md, before:


# Python Fundamentals Problem Sheet

> Module: Emerging Technologies / 4th Year  
> Lecturer: Dr Ian McLoughlin 

These are my solutions to the [Python fundamentals problem sheet](https://emerging-technologies.github.io/problems/python-fundamentals.md) available on the [Emerging Technologies](https://emerging-technologies.github.io) website.

## How this repository is organised
Each solution to each problem on the problem sheet is in its own file.
The files are named in the format `##-title.py`.

## How to clone this repository
1. Go to the [GitHub](https://www.github.com) [repository page]().
2. Find the link to clone the repository.

## Problems

## 1. Hello World
A standard "Hello World" program. Print Hello world 

## 2. Current Time
Print the current time and date to the screen.

## 3. FizzBuzz 
This program outputs all numbers 1 - 100 inclusive. If a number is divisible by 3, "Fizz" is printed instead of the number. The same goes for multiples of 5, except "Buzz" is printed. If a number is a multiple of both 3 and 5, the output is "FizzBuzz".

## 4. Factorial
The user enters a number. The factorial of a number n is gotten by multiplying n by n-1 and then decrementing n for the next iteration until we arrive at 1

For example 10! => 10*9*8*7*6*5*4*3*2*1 which gives 3628800
Then sum the digits in the number 10! which is 3+6+2+8+8+0+0 = 27
Find the sum of the digits in the number 100!

## 5. Guessing Game  
The program generates a random number for the user to guess. The program tells the user if their guess was too high or too low, and tells them how many tries it took them when they get the number right. The program does not count multiple guesses of the same number as an attempt

## 6. Smallest and Largest in a List
The user enters a list of 5 numbers, and the program calculates and prints the smallest and largest numbers in the list.

## 7. Palindrome Test 
The user enters a word (or sentence), and the program tests whether the string is a palindrome. A palindrome is a string which when reversed is equal to the starting string

## 8. Merge list and sort

Source: https://adriann.github.io/programming_problems.html

Write a function that merges two sorted lists into a new sorted list. [1,4,6],[2,3,5] → [1,2,3,4,5,6].


## 9. Newton's method for square roots

Source: https://tour.golang.org/flowcontrol/8

Implement the square root function using Newton's method.
In this case, Newton's method is to approximate sqrt(x) by picking a starting point z and then repeating:

```python
z_next = z - ((z*z - x) / (2 * z))
```

To begin with, just repeat that calculation 10 times and see how close you get to the answer for various values (1, 2, 3, ...).
Next, change the loop condition to stop once the value has stopped changing (or only changes by a very small delta).
How close are you to the [math.sqrt](https://docs.python.org/2/library/math.html) value?


## 10. Reverse string
Write a function to reverse a string.

Commit message:

Added testing section to readme

README.md, after:


# Python Fundamentals Problem Sheet

> Module: Emerging Technologies / 4th Year  
> Lecturer: Dr Ian McLoughlin 

These are my solutions to the [Python fundamentals problem sheet](https://emerging-technologies.github.io/problems/python-fundamentals.md) available on the [Emerging Technologies](https://emerging-technologies.github.io) website.

## How this repository is organised
Each solution to each problem on the problem sheet is in its own file.
The files are named in the format `##-title.py`.
In the 'test-cases' folder there are a number of python test cases for some of the problems.

## How to use the repos testing 

From the root directory of the repo, use the command :
```
pytest
```
This will then scan through the repo looking for files beginning with 'test_' and execute the test cases inside.
Testing is done using the pytest module. To install pytest enter into your terminal 
```
pip3 install pytest
```

## How to clone this repository
1. Go to the [GitHub](https://www.github.com) [repository page]().
2. Find the link to clone the repository.

## Problems

## 1. Hello World
A standard "Hello World" program. Print Hello world 

## 2. Current Time
Print the current time and date to the screen.

## 3. FizzBuzz 
This program outputs all numbers 1 - 100 inclusive. If a number is divisible by 3, "Fizz" is printed instead of the number. The same goes for multiples of 5, except "Buzz" is printed. If a number is a multiple of both 3 and 5, the output is "FizzBuzz".

## 4. Factorial
The user enters a number. The factorial of a number n is gotten by multiplying n by n-1 and then decrementing n for the next iteration until we arrive at 1

For example 10! => 10*9*8*7*6*5*4*3*2*1 which gives 3628800
Then sum the digits in the number 10! which is 3+6+2+8+8+0+0 = 27
Find the sum of the digits in the number 100!

## 5. Guessing Game  
The program generates a random number for the user to guess. The program tells the user if their guess was too high or too low, and tells them how many tries it took them when they get the number right. The program does not count multiple guesses of the same number as an attempt

## 6. Smallest and Largest in a List
The user enters a list of 5 numbers, and the program calculates and prints the smallest and largest numbers in the list.

## 7. Palindrome Test 
The user enters a word (or sentence), and the program tests whether the string is a palindrome. A palindrome is a string which when reversed is equal to the starting string

## 8. Merge list and sort

Source: https://adriann.github.io/programming_problems.html

Write a function that merges two sorted lists into a new sorted list. [1,4,6],[2,3,5] → [1,2,3,4,5,6].


## 9. Newton's method for square roots

Source: https://tour.golang.org/flowcontrol/8

Implement the square root function using Newton's method.
In this case, Newton's method is to approximate sqrt(x) by picking a starting point z and then repeating:

```python
z_next = z - ((z*z - x) / (2 * z))
```

To begin with, just repeat that calculation 10 times and see how close you get to the answer for various values (1, 2, 3, ...).
Next, change the loop condition to stop once the value has stopped changing (or only changes by a very small delta).
How close are you to the [math.sqrt](https://docs.python.org/2/library/math.html) value?


## 10. Reverse string
Write a function to reverse a string.
